Walking up and down 3 flights of stairs instead of using an elevator saves 15 Watt-hours (Wh) a day or 450 Wh a month (enough to power a 37” Plasma TV for 3 hours), and burns about 18 kcal.
An individual generates about 6.5 kg of carbon emissions per year by taking the elevator. That works out to half a metric TON of carbon emissions over a lifetime. Even two flights of stairs climbed per day can lead to about 6 lbs lost in one year.
Take a big step toward reducing your carbon footprint by eating local foods (to avoid transportation costs), whole foods (to avoid processing costs) and organic foods (to avoid petroleum-based fertilizer usage).  These foods will help you reach a healthy weight.
Eating locally can help you burn calories and is better for the environment.  Walk to the local food co-op or farmers market and burn 100 calories per mile, and save gasoline from driving your car and energy from the transportation and packaging of your food.
Start a vegetable garden to have fresh produce all year round.  You’ll save gas driving to the store, and will help the environment by cutting down on food transportation costs and packaging.  You can burn 150 calories by working in the garden for 30-45 minutes.
If possible, buy fresh foods instead of frozen, as frozen food uses 10 times more energy to produce.
Drink lots of water, and buy a recyclable water bottle instead of a plastic one-use water bottle.
According to the Container Recycling Institute, only 23% of plastic bottles are recycled in the US, while 38 billion plastic bottles go into landfills in the US each year.
Plastic bottles take up to 1000 years to biodegrade. Recommended brands: Sigg and Klean Kanteen.
Americans weigh about 24 more pounds per person than we did in the 1970s. Multiplied over the three trillion miles driven in America each year, this weight adds up and requires more gasoline for our cars to transport the extra weight. If we could (preferably through walking and biking) lose those 24 lbs and reach 1970’s sizes, America would use nearly one billion gallons of gas less than we currently do.Gas powered lawn mowers can emit the same amount of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) in an hour as a new car driven 340 miles and use 800 million gallons of gas each year.
Use a push reel lawn mower instead and burn 300-400 calories in an hour of mowing your lawn! If you mow your lawn once per week with a push mower instead of a gas mower, you would burn an additional 3,172 calories per year.
Residential leaf blowers emit CO2 equivalent to 2,200 miles of driving and carbon monoxide equal to 110 miles. A half hour of raking leaves burns 150 calories.whenever possible, walk, bike, car pool, or use mass transit. Every gallon of gasoline you save avoids 22 pounds of CO2 emissions, and every mile you walk burns an average of 100 calories.  Avoiding just 10 miles of driving every week would eliminate about 500 pounds of carbon dioxide emissions a year!
Hanging your laundry to dry on a clothes line will burn 45 calories in 15 minutes and save you you 3-4 kWh/washing cycle.
You can save 700 pounds of carbon dioxide when you air dry your clothes for 6 months out of the year.
Airplane transport industry as a whole produces the most total CO2e emissions out of all transportation industries.
Home electricity use from the grid is the largest source of CO2 for an average American.